- The next step will be to plug in the Spring's form tag
on JSP to display those error messages.
So, yes, if validations fail,
then those error messages
that we have defined in the user bin,
are going to be populated in a list
and it can be displayed on JSP
with the Spring's tagged list form tag.
Let's come to the JSP again.
Let's open the JSP here.
Which is register JSP.
And this is your form,
starting from line number 43.
So what we're going to do is
we are just going to make sure that before this break line,
we insert another tag from the Spring tag list,
which is for errors.
So it's as simple as form;errors
and you have to provide the attribute
for which there could be possibly an error message.
Also, let's attach a cssClass
so the error message will look red in color,
so that'll be cssClass"error"
so that's all.
You have to make sure that the form errors
is defined on your JSP
with the particular attribute name
so that the error message for username
gets displayed right next to the username text box.
So we'll do this for the other fields as well.
You have username for which we're running a validation.
You also have the password for which there's a validation.
Let's change the part for it
and then we also had one for the activity,
which is going to be checking for non null values.
So let's also go and do that
and then we can also do it for firstName.
So that will be right here.
So on line 52,
I'm going to say form;errors
and say path="activity"
because that's the error message that we want to grab.
Once we are done with that,
we can also go ahead and attach the errors to the firstName,
because that's another validation that we're carrying out.
So I'm just going to copy this, line 46,
come down for firstName
and make sure that you change the property name.
Also, let's pick up the cssClass="error"
and go to that activity form;errors tag on line 52
and attach it there.
So there we go.
We have made sure that all the error messages
are attached to the respective fields
for which we are carrying out the validation.
So let's go ahead and build this now
and check out if our validations work correctly.
So let's open our application.
localhost8080/home, let's go home first
and let's go to login, let's go to register.
Let's say I'm going to put a username which is less than six
then I'm going to forcibly make sure that
this password does not comply
and then I'm going to leave the first name like that
and I'm not going to enter any value for activity.
Let's submit this form
and find out if validations run.
Perfect.
So we have those validations running absolutely right.
We got all the error messages right there on the screen.
So the username cannot be less than six characters.
The password does not comply.
The first name cannot be empty.
Activity cannot be empty.
So the way we have done these validations
for these four fields,
you can do it for the rest of the fields as well
and feel free to explore any other java validations,
annotations that you could possibly attach
on your java attributes.